# confy-php

Official Confy API library client for PHP

__This library is generated by [alpaca](https://github.com/pksunkara/alpaca)__

## Installation

Make sure you have [composer](https://getcomposer.org) installed.

Add the following to your composer.json

```js
{
    "require": {
        "pksunkara/confyio": "*"
    }
}
```

Update your dependencies

```bash
$ php composer.phar update
```

> This package follows the `PSR-0` convention names for its classes, which means you can easily integrate these classes loading in your own autoloader.

#### Versions

Works with [ 5.4 / 5.5 ]

## Usage

```php
<?php

// This file is generated by Composer
require_once 'vendor/autoload.php';

// Then we instantiate a client (as shown below)
```

### Build a client

__Using this api without authentication gives an error__

##### Basic authentication

```php
$auth = array('username' => 'pksunkara', 'password' => 'password');

$client = new Confy\Client($auth, $clientOptions);
```

### Client Options

The following options are available while instantiating a client:

 * __base__: Base url for the api
 * __api_version__: Default version of the api (to be used in url)
 * __user_agent__: Default user-agent for all requests
 * __headers__: Default headers for all requests
 * __request_type__: Default format of the request body

### Response information

__All the callbacks provided to an api call will recieve the response as shown below__

```php
$response = $client->klass('args')->method('args', $methodOptions);

$response->code;
// >>> 200

$response->headers;
// >>> array('x-server' => 'apache')
```

##### JSON response

When the response sent by server is __json__, it is decoded into an array

```php
$response->body;
// >>> array('user' => 'pksunkara')
```

### Method Options

The following options are available while calling a method of an api:

 * __api_version__: Version of the api (to be used in url)
 * __headers__: Headers for the request
 * __query__: Query parameters for the url
 * __body__: Body of the request
 * __request_type__: Format of the request body

### Request body information

Set __request_type__ in options to modify the body accordingly

##### RAW request

When the value is set to __raw__, don't modify the body at all.

```php
$body = 'username=pksunkara';
// >>> 'username=pksunkara'
```

##### JSON request

When the value is set to __json__, JSON encode the body.

```php
$body = array('user' => 'pksunkara');
// >>> '{"user": "pksunkara"}'
```

### Authenticated User api

User who is authenticated currently.

```php
$user = $client->user();
```

##### Retrieve authenticated user (GET /user)

Get the authenticated user's info.

```php
$response = $user->retrieve($options);
```

##### Update authenticated user (PATCH /user)

Update the authenticated user's profile

The following arguments are required:

 * __email__: Profile email of the user

```php
$response = $user->update("john@smith.com", $options);
```

### Organizations api

Organizations are owned by users and only (s)he can add/remove teams and projects for that organization. A default organization will be created for every user.

```php
$orgs = $client->orgs();
```

##### List Organizations (GET /orgs)

List all organizations the authenticated user is a member of.

```php
$response = $orgs->list($options);
```

##### Retrieve an organization (GET /orgs/:org)

Get an organization the user has access to.

The following arguments are required:

 * __org__: Name of the organization

```php
$response = $orgs->retrieve("bigcompany", $options);
```

##### Update an organization (PATCH /orgs/:org)

Update an organization the user is owner of.

The following arguments are required:

 * __org__: Name of the organization
 * __email__: Billing email of the organization

```php
$response = $orgs->update("bigcompany", "admin@bigcompany.com", $options);
```

## Contributors
Here is a list of [Contributors](https://github.com/asm-products/confy-php/contributors)

### TODO

## License
BSD

## Bug Reports
Report [here](https://github.com/asm-products/confy-php/issues).

## Contact
Pavan Kumar Sunkara (pavan.sss1991@gmail.com)
